When we talk about types such as strings or integers and so forth, it's important to think about the
memory in computers, right?
Because the idea really in computing is we are storing data into memory and then retrieving it when
we needed to do some computations or whatever we need to do and then put it back right as a result and
so forth.
So we are manipulating data.
So it's important to understand how, at least at a top level, how it all works so that we know exactly
when to use what type of versus the other so types in Kotlin and their sizes.
So types in this case, if you look at the type as a bucket right in the memory that will store certain
size or variable, we could divide everything into small types, medium types, large types and extra
large or x large types.
What does that mean?
Well, first of all, we have to understand what is a bit in computer science and jargon, if you will.
Now this is a very computer science topic, and so we're not going to be going into computer science,
but I think it's important to understand a little bit what's a bit well, a bit in computer science
is the smallest unit of data or information.
OK, so it's either one or zero on or off.
So that is a bit.
So if you talk about sizes, obviously we have to have some sort of a default, a central unit that
is the base of everything.
Right.
So a bit in computing is the base unit for everything.
So that's important because when we talk about types and codling, the basic types are int byte in short
and an integer, as we've seen before.
We can use it for a whole number.
So it is a whole number and the int type can hold 32 bits.
So that's a lot of data, a lot of information.
OK, now if we want something that is a little bit smaller, we would use a byte.
So if we are working on an application that requires us to have larger numbers in this case, at least
up to 32 bits, then obviously we'll use an integer.
But if we know that the application will require smaller numbers, right, that will hold something
like eight bits, then we're going to use a byte.
He makes sense.
If we want something in the middle right and not too small, but not too large, then as short would
be fine because short will hold sixteen bits of information.
All right.
There's another type in Scotland called Long Island.
Long is a large type, which means it holds 64 bits.
This is real big.
It's a large container, if you will, that can hold a lot of information.
Now this topic is very important because you need to understand which size is or what kind of what types
you may need in certain situations.
Obviously, you're not going to be using long types if you are just creating an application that doesn't
really need to store that much in memory.
So we've seen int right and integer, and we saw that is a whole number and an entire as a whole number
holds 32 bit, so it's quite a large bucket.
But of course, it's not infinite, which means it has a fixed size.
So if we want a smaller size type or would use and byte, so I can say, well, my byte, for instance,
and then we're going to say this is a byte types, not the syntax here, right?
There is a bite.
And then I could get rid of all of this, of course.
And in fact, it can come up here and say my byte and give it a value of one 20.
And then here, of course, I'm going to just go ahead and say my byte.
This will make less sense, or it can just get rid of all of this.
All right.
So if you go ahead and run this, we should obviously see 120 and you can see 120.
OK, now just to prove to you that there's indeed a limit to this size.
What happens if I go to 126?
Things are still good.
If I say 127.
Perfectly good.
But look what happened if I go to 128?
Aha.
That's the upper limit.
What this is saying is that we no longer can fit 120 eight into a byte type because that is the upper
limit.
The upper limit, in fact, is 21 27 positive or negative.
The moment ago, over 127, which is the upper limit, right?
We get this problem.
This shows us that this is not going to work because byte, it has so much space verdicts of 1.7 that
that is the highest we can go.
If I go back here and let's say another vow and I'm going to use this time my short and say short as
a type, it's cuddly type.
Let's see what's going to happen when I say my short.
I'm going to give a value of 128 is no problem.
Let's go ahead and call my short here right the way because we not concatenating or interpolating anything,
we can just get rid of the double.
And go like that, it's much easier, more readable.
OK, so let's go ahead and run one to an eight, that's fine.
Now what is the highest threshold here?
Let's continue in when I say 29, this seems to be fine and I keep going.
I do not.
No, no, no, no.
So at some point, this also breaks.
It looks like we have reached our 16 bit size there.
This is just to illustrate what I have just spoken about sizes and types in cuddling.
Now, in most cases, really all you will always see and use is an integer.
In most, most cases in your programming life.
But of course, there are times you will see later you can use floats and so forth that doubles.
But when it comes to whole numbers integers, this is most likely.
What are you going to be using?
All right.
So really, you don't have to memorize any of this is just an exploration something that I can let you
know about.
So you actually know, understand it, that there are types in color and those types do hold size of
values and it's important to be aware of this.